# CERTIFICATION LIAISON PROCESS

The purpose of the certification liaison process is to establish communication and understanding between the applicant and the certification authority throughout the hardware design life cycle to assist in the certification process. The certification liaison process should be accomplished as described by the hardware planning process, Section 4 , and the PHAC, Section 10.1.1. Table A- 1 of Appendix A gives a summary of the outputs of this process. In addition, liaison activities may include design approach presentation for timely approval, negotiations concerning the means of compliance with the certification basis, approval of design approach, means of data approval, and any required certification authority reviews and witnessing of tests.

At completion of a project, a summary of the design processes followed, outputs produced and status of the hardware item should be described in the Hardware Accomplishment Summary, Section 10.9.

## Means of Compliance and Planning

The applicant proposes a means of compliance for hardware. The PHAC defines the proposed means of compliance. Guidance includes:

1. The PHAC, hardware verification plan and other requested data should be submitted to the certification authority for review at a point in time when the effects of design changes on the program are minimal.
2. Issues identified by the certification authority concerning the planning for the hardware aspects of certification should be resolved.
3. Agreement on the PHAC should be obtained with the certification authority.
4. Liaison with the certification authority during the design and certification cycle as outlined in the plan should be continued and issues raised by the certification authority resolved in a timely manner.

In some programs, the certification liaison is not provided by the equipment manufacturer, but by the airframe or other customer with the equipment manufacturer in a supporting role. This relationship should be defined in the PHAC and contact with the certification authority should be through the applicant for certification. It is the responsibility of the applicant for certification to ensure that data is provided to the certification authority.

When some hardware items embedded in the equipment are procured from a subcontractor, the certification plan should identify which data are expected from the subcontractor and which are to be generated by the applicant.

It is acceptable for an applicant to include the PHAC and verification plan with other related plans within the top-level certification plan

## Compliance Substantiation

The applicant provides evidence that the hardware design life cycle processes have satisfied the hardware plans. Certification authority reviews may take place at the applicant’s facilities or applicant’s supplier’s facilities. The applicant arranges these reviews and makes hardware design life cycle data available as needed.

The applicant should:

1. Resolve issues raised by the certification authority as a result of its reviews.
2. Submit the Hardware Accomplishment Summary, Section 10.9 and Top Level Drawing, Section 10.3.2.2.1 to the certification authority.
3. Submit or make available other data or evidence of compliance requested by the certification authority.
